docs rework (#1264)
hyperledger-labs/fabric-token-sdk: docs/driverapi.md

# Driver API

Below is a pictorial representation of the `Driver API`:

![driverapi.png](imgs/driverapi.png)

## Serialization

> The Driver API recommends to use the `protobuf` protocol to serialize public parameters, token requests.

Reviewer: It recommends `protobuf` but does it support other alternatives? should we name them?

The relative protobuf messages are [`here`](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/fabric-token-sdk/blob/2118c1535ebaaed2ecc293b0c3f66aa71eeafe21/token/driver/protos/).
This guarantees retro and forward compatibility.

The message for the public parameters carries:

> - A token driver identifier to be able to understand which driver generated these parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An identifier of the token driver that generated these parameters.
```

The sentence is slightly messy.

> - The lower-lever representation of the public parameters. Each driver must decide how to encode these bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A lower-level representation of the public parameters. Drivers are responsible for choosing an appropriate byte encoding.
```

> The message for the token requests consists of:

Reviewer: The term "token requests" is first defined here. Is there an equivalent term "token responses"?

- Serialization of the issue actions.
- Serialization of the transfer actions.
- Signatures of the partis involved in the above actions.
- Auditor Signatures, if required by the driver.

## Drivers

The Token-SDK comes equipped with two `Drivers` implementing the `Driver API`:

### `FabToken`

Fabtoken is a straightforward implementation of the Driver API.
It prioritizes simplicity over privacy, storing all token transaction details openly on the ledger for anyone with access to view ownership and activity.
FabToken exclusively supports long-term identities based on a standard X.509 certificate scheme.

> These identities contain an X.509 certificate, which reveals the owner's enrollment ID in plain text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FabToken exclusively supports long-term identities based on a standard X.509 certificate scheme,
which reveals the owner's enrollment ID in plain text.
```

> Tokens are directly represented on the ledger as JSON-formatted data based on the token.Token structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens are directly represented on the ledger as JSON-formatted data based on the `token.Token` structure.
```

- Finally, it checks the metadata entries carried by the action. Only `public` metadata entries whose key has prefix `pub.` are allowed.

For a transfer action, the validator does the following:
- The action must be well-formed. All the expected fields must be there.
- The owner of each and every input must have signed the token request. Recall, this driver is not graph hiding, therefore the action carries the inputs being spent.
- If one of the outputs has a `empty` owner, this token signals a redeem operation. Therefore, at least one issuer in the list of the public params' issuers must have signed the token request.
- It validates the ZK proof against the token commitments and the public parameters.
  The input and output tokens must be valid Pedersen commitments under the public parameters.
  Moreover, all tokens must have the same type and the value must be in the specific range.
  Finally, the same of the input values must be equal to the same of the output values.
- Finally, it checks the metadata entries carried by the action. Only `public` metadata entries whose key has prefix `pub.` are allowed.

> Finally, the validator checks the at list one auditor in the list of public params' auditors have signed the token request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the validator checks that at list one auditor in the list of public params' auditors have signed the token request.
```

> This signatures in carried in the `AuditorSignatures` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This signature is carried in the `AuditorSignatures` field.
```
or `These signatures are`

- An `Issue Action` proves that value is in the right range and one of the authorized issuers signed the request.
- A `Transfer Action` proves the following:
    - The sum of the inputs is equal to the sum of the outputs and the value of each output is in the valid range;
    - Inputs and outputs have the same type;
    - The owners of each input signed the request;
- The rightful owner of a token can redeem it;
- All the information required to operate the driver are found in the public parameters.
- Actions, public parameters, tokens, and tokens metadata are marshalled using `protobuf` messages.

In the coming sections, we give more details about the above key characteristics.

#### Tokens and their Metadata

A token is presented on the ledger as a pair `(pedersen commitment to type and value, owner)`.
The pedersen commitment is computed as $g_0^{H_{Z_r}(Type)}g_1^{Value} g_2^{BF}$,
where $H_{Zr}$ is the `hash to Zr` function provided by the bilinear group,
${g_i}$ are the bases of the pedersen commitment,   
$Type$ is a string, and both $Value$ and $BF$ are in $Z_r$.

> The token metadata is then a tuple containing: Token type, value, blinding factor, and issuer's identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The token metadata is a tuple containing: Token type, value, blinding factor, and issuer's identity.
```

#### Issue Action

An `issue action` is responsible for creating new tokens.  
This is a privileged operation, meaning only an `issuer` can authorize it.

The action includes the following:
- The identity of the issuer;
- The output tokens to be created;
- A zero-knowledge proof of validity of the action;

> - Additional public metadata.

Reviewer: This is slightly ambigious can we be more specific?

#### Transfer Action

A `transfer action` spends existing tokens to create new tokens for an equivalent amount of value.
The ownership of the new tokens can be assigned to any admissible `owner identity`.

> The actions includes the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actions include the following:
```

- The input tokens to be spent;
- The output tokens to be created;
- A zero-knowledge proof of validity of the action;

> - Additional public metadata.

Reviewer: Same ambigiouty here. Can we be more specific?

## Security

Security claims are related to the Token Drivers, implementations of the Driver API.
As we have seen before, the Token-SDK comes equipped with two Drivers:
- `FabToken` does not guarantee the privacy of tokens and identities.
  The validator guarantees that:
  - Only the issuers listed in the public parameters can issue tokens;
  - Only the auditors listed in the public parameters can audit transactions;
  - Only legitimate owners can spend their tokens
  - In a transfer, the sum of the inputs being spent is equal to the sum of the outputs being created.
- `DLOG w/o Graph Hiding` does guarantee the privacy of the tokens, anonymity and unlinkability of the owner identities.
  The validator guarantees that:
  - Only the issuers listed in the public parameters can issue tokens;
  - Only the auditors listed in the public parameters can audit transactions;
  - Only legitimate owners can spend their tokens
  - In a transfer, the sum of the inputs being spent is equal to the sum of the outputs being created.
    It does not guarantee:
  - Anonymity of the issuers and auditors;

>   - Token Graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Token Graph;
```

Same comment for the rest of the document.

    Claims and security properties can be found in this paper [`Privacy-preserving auditable token payments in a permissioned blockchain system`]('https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1058.pdf')

### Secrets or Keys

Secrets and Keys in the Token-SDK are associated to tokens and identities.
Depending on the driver implementation, the nature of these secrets and keys may vary.
Nevertheless, we can pinpoint where they are stored in the Token-SDK stores.

Also, here, for simplicity, we assume that:
- The backend is Fabric,
- The Token Driver is `DLOG w/o Graph Hiding`.
- The Key Store is that provided by the Token-SDK.

#### Tokens

> A privacy preserving token can be understood as a sealed envelope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A privacy-preserving token can be understood as a sealed envelope.
```

            # additional options that can be used to instantiated the wallet.
            # options are driver dependent. With `fabtoken` and `dlog` drivers,
            # the following options apply
            opts:
              BCCSP:
                Default: SW
                PKCS11:
                  Hash: SHA2
                  Label: null
                  Library: null
                  Pin: null
                  Security: 256
                SW:
                  Hash: SHA2
                  Security: 256
```
For each wallet type, one defines a list of identities that will be loaded into the `IdentityConfigurations` table.
The secret keys are assumed to be on a file system or inside an HSM, when supported.
Currently, we only supports ECDSA keys in HSM.
At loading time, the configuration is parsed and the content of filesystem is loaded inside the `IdentityConfigurations` table.
The corresponding secret keys are either stored in the `KeyStore` table or in an external custom defined key store.
After the first loading, the content of the file system can be removed.
- Directly by loading the `IdentityConfigurations` table with the relevant information.

> We currently supports two type of keys: ECDSA and Idemix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We currently support two types of keys: ECDSA and Idemix.
```

When loading an ECDSA key inside the `IdentityConfigurations`, only the corresponding `X509` certificate is loaded inside the table.
The secret key is stored in the key store.
When loading Idemix credentials, only the public part of the credential is store in the `IdentityConfigurations` table.
The secret key is stored in the key store and the secret key component of the credential is replaced with the secret key's SKI.

Idemix identities are only used for the `owner` wallets. X509 identities are used for issuers and auditors.
When an identity is derived from an owner wallet via a call to `GetRecipientIdentity`,
then both the `IdentityInfo` and the `IdentitySigners` tables are filled with a row.

> The field `identity_audit_info` contains private information about the identity.

Reviewer: Can we add `private information`? e.g., (such as ...)

####  Identity Options: Passports and Beyond

Identities come in different forms.

A common choice is an `X.509 certificate`, a secure electronic passport that links a real-world entity (website, organization, or person) to a public key using a digital signature.
This certificate uniquely identifies the entity it represents.

Another option is `anonymous credentials`, which allow users to prove they have certain attributes (like age or qualifications) without revealing their entire identity.
Imagine showing an ID that only displays relevant information, not your full details.
This is particularly useful for protecting user privacy.

####  Roles and Wallets: Managing Access

Importantly, roles can contain different identity types.
These roles then act as the foundation for creating wallets.
A wallet is like a digital vault that stores a long-term identity (the main key) and any credentials derived from it, if supported.
Different wallet types provide different functionalities.
For example, an issuer wallet lets you see a list of issued tokens, while an owner wallet shows unspent tokens.

> All these wallets have though a minimum common denominator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All these wallets have, however, share a minimum common denominator:
```

> Given a wallet, you, as the developer, can derive identities to be used in different contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given a wallet, identities can be derived for use in different contexts.
```

Regarding, till now the document used a formal tone, and now it has a different tutorial like tone ("you, as the developer,")
